[RF-Docs][ci-skip] Caching with Rails (#57107)
rails/rails: guides/source/caching_with_rails.md

Reviewer: Products having games is a bit strange.
Maybe change it to reviews?

```suggestion
  <%= render product.reviews %>
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class Product < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :reviews
end

class Review < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :product, touch: true
end
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `touch` set to `true`, any action which changes `updated_at` for a review
```

Reviewer: This just seems to repeat the "After reading this guide, you will know:" points.
Maybe we can just delete it?

```suggestion
```

Types of Caching
----------------

By default, [Action Controller
Caching](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionController/Caching.html) is
enabled only in the production environment. However, you can play around with
caching locally by running `bin/rails dev:cache`, or by setting
[`config.action_controller.perform_caching`][] to `true` in

> `config/environments/development.rb`.

Reviewer: Starting the "Types of Caching" section with "how to enable Action Controller Caching" was a bit confusing for me.

Some guides have a "Setup" or "Installation" top section.
- [Action Mailbox > Setup](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/action_mailbox_basics.html#setup)
- [Action Text > Installation](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/action_text_overview.html#installation)
- [Active Storage > Setup](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/active_storage_overview.html#setup)
- [I18n > Setup the Rails Application for Internationalization](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/i18n.html#setup-the-rails-application-for-internationalization)

Maybe we can move some of this to a "Setup" top section as well?

Also, the "Solid Cache > Caching in Development" section, does a more extensive explanation for configuring caching (specifically enabling caching in development), that could be combined here.

the resulting cache key will be something like
`products/233-20140225082222765838000/competing_price`. `cache_key_with_version`
generates a string based on the model's class name, `id`, and `updated_at`
attributes, in the form `<model class name>/<resource id>-<resource
updated_at>`. This is a common convention and has the benefit of invalidating
the cache whenever the product is updated.

INFO: The keys you use on `Rails.cache` will not be the same as those actually
used with the storage engine. They may be modified with a namespace or altered
to fit technology backend constraints. This means, for instance, that you can't
save values with `Rails.cache` and then try to pull them out with the
[`dalli`](https://github.com/petergoldstein/dalli) gem. However, you also don't
need to worry about exceeding the memcached size limit or violating syntax
rules.

#### Avoid Caching Instances of Active Record Objects

You should __avoid__ storing a list of Active Record objects in the cache:

```ruby
# super_admins is an expensive SQL query, so don't run it too often
Rails.cache.fetch("super_admin_users", expires_in: 12.hours) do
  User.super_admins.to_a
end
```

> In the example above the instance of the `User`, representing `superusers`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example above, the instance of the `User`, representing `superusers`,
```

```

When your application receives its first request to this page, Rails will write
a new cache entry with a unique key. The key looks something like this:

```
views/products/index:bea67108094918eeba42cd4a6e786901/products/1
```

The string of characters in the middle is a template tree digest. It is a hash
computed from the contents of the view fragment you are caching. If you change
that fragment, such as by updating the HTML, the digest changes and Rails will
treat it as a different cache entry.

A cache version, derived from the product record, is stored in the cache entry.
When the product is touched, the cache version changes, and any cached fragments

> that contain the previous version are ignored.

Reviewer: Maybe we can explain here why we separate the version from the key?

Something like (copied from https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/29092):
```suggestion
that contain the previous version are ignored.

Separating the cache key from the cache version allows reusing the cache key, instead of creating a new entry every time.
No matter how frequently the product is touched, it will write to the same cache key.
This reduces the total cache as outdated cache entries get overridden with the new entry.
```

```

##### Explicit Dependencies

Sometimes Rails cannot see a template dependency on its own. This usually
happens when the `render` call is hidden inside a helper method.

```html+erb
<%= render_sortable_todolists @project.todolists %>
```

In that case, declare the dependency explicitly with a special comment:

```html+erb
<%# Template Dependency: todolists/todolist %>
<%= render_sortable_todolists @project.todolists %>
```

In some cases, such as a [single table
inheritance](association_basics.html#single-table-inheritance) setup, a helper
may render different partials from the same directory. Instead of listing each
template individually, you can use a wildcard to match the whole directory:

```html+erb
<%# Template Dependency: events/* %>
<%= render_categorizable_events @person.events %>
```

There is also a special comment for collection caching when the cache call is
hidden inside a helper. If the partial template does not start with a clean
cache call, you can add this comment anywhere in the template:

```html+erb
<%# Template Collection: notification %>
<% my_helper_that_calls_cache(some_arg, notification) do %>
  <%= notification.name %>
<% end %>
```

> ###### External Dependencies

Reviewer: The h6 is formatted a bit weird (we should probably not use it?)

<img width="710" height="283" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5e1129bc-23fe-4f53-87f6-a54ba2c67543" />

Maybe just keep the same heading level as "Implicit Dependencies" and "Explicit Dependencies"?
```suggestion
##### External Dependencies
```

> <% end %>
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```erb
<% cache review do %>
 <%= render review %>
<% end %>
```
````

> If a `game` changes, its `updated_at` value changes too, which expires that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `review` changes, its `updated_at` value changes too, which expires that
```

the `updated_at` and `cache_key_with_version` methods for setting
`last_modified` and `etag`:

```ruby
class ProductsController < ApplicationController
  def show
    @product = Product.find(params[:id])

    if stale?(@product)
      respond_to do |wants|
        # ... normal response processing
      end
    end
  end
end
```

If you don't have any special response processing and are using the default
rendering mechanism (i.e. you're not using `respond_to` or calling render
yourself) then you've got an easy helper in `fresh_when`:

```ruby
class ProductsController < ApplicationController
  # This will automatically send back a :not_modified if the request is fresh,
  # and will render the default template (product.*) if it's stale.

  def show
    @product = Product.find(params[:id])
    fresh_when last_modified: @product.published_at.utc, etag: @product
  end
end
```

When both `last_modified` and `etag` are set, the behavior depends on
`config.action_dispatch.strict_freshness`. If it is `true`, only the `etag` is
considered, as specified by RFC 7232 section 6. If it is `false`, both headers
are checked and the response is considered fresh only if they both match.

> 

Reviewer: Just like `stale?` `fresh_when` also allows passing just the model:
````suggestion

Instead of an options hash, you can also simply pass in a model. Rails will use
the `updated_at` and `cache_key_with_version` methods for setting
`last_modified` and `etag`:

```ruby
class ProductsController < ApplicationController
  def show
    @product = Product.find(params[:id])
    fresh_when @product
  end
end
```

````

end
```

The second time the same query runs, it does not hit the database. Active Record
reads the cached result from memory instead. However, each retrieval still
instantiates new model objects from that cached result.

NOTE: Query caches are created at the start of an action and destroyed at the
end of that action, so they persist only for the duration of the request. If

> you'd like to store query results in a more persistent fashion, you can with

Reviewer: Nit. I find the following a bit simpler to read:
```suggestion
you'd like to store query results in a more persistent fashion, use
```

low-level caching.

Solid Cache

> -----------

Reviewer: In the "Active Job" guide, the title of the Solid Queue section is: "Default Backend: Solid Queue"
Maybe we can do something similar here as well? This makes is slightly clearer what Solid Queue is by reading sidebar.
```suggestion
Default Cache Store: Solid Cache
--------------------------------
```

Or maybe somewhat shorter?
```suggestion
Default Store: Solid Cache
--------------------------
```

a result, there are fewer cache misses on average, leading to fast response
times.

Solid Cache is a good fit when you want a larger, more durable cache without

> running a separate cache service such as Redis or Memcached.

Reviewer: Maybe combine these paragraphs and remove all text about SSDs?.
Whether SSDs are slower than RAM can get outdated.
Maybe also mention Solid Cache is the Rails default in the opening paragraph?
For example:
```suggestion
Solid Cache is a database-backed Active Support cache store. It is the default cache
store for new Rails applications. Solid Cache is a good fit when you want a larger, more
durable cache without running a separate cache service such as Redis or Memcached.
```

the lower efficiency of FIFO by allowing the cache to live longer, reducing the
frequency of invalidations.

New Rails applications generated with Rails 8.0 and later include Solid Cache by
default. However, if you'd prefer not to use it, you can skip Solid Cache:

```bash

> rails new app_name --skip-solid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ bin/rails new app_name --skip-solid
```

```

If `database` or [`databases`](#sharding-the-cache) is not specified in the
cache configuration, Solid Cache uses the `ActiveRecord::Base` connection pool.
That means cache reads and writes participate in any surrounding database
transaction.

To use Solid Cache as your cache store, configure the environment accordingly:

```ruby
  # config/environments/production.rb

>   config.cache_store = :solid_cache_store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# config/environments/production.rb
config.cache_store = :solid_cache_store
```

threaded server, you can have multiple threads performing queries to the cache
store at the same time.

> If you want to disable connection pooling, set `:pool` option to `false` when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to disable connection pooling, set  the `:pool` option to `false` when
```

[ActiveSupport::Cache::Store#delete]:
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/Store.html#method-i-delete
[ActiveSupport::Cache::Store#exist?]:
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/Store.html#method-i-exist-3F
[ActiveSupport::Cache::Store#fetch]:
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/Store.html#method-i-fetch
[ActiveSupport::Cache::Store#read]:
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/Store.html#method-i-read
[ActiveSupport::Cache::Store#write]:
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/Store.html#method-i-write

### `ActiveSupport::Cache::MemoryStore`

[`ActiveSupport::Cache::MemoryStore`][] keeps entries in memory in the same Ruby
process. The cache store has a bounded size specified by sending the `:size`
option to the initializer (default is 32Mb). When the cache exceeds the allotted
size, a cleanup will occur and the least recently used entries will be removed.

```ruby
config.cache_store = :memory_store, { size: 64.megabytes }
```

If you're running multiple Ruby on Rails server processes (which is the case if

> you're using Phusion Passenger or puma clustered mode), then your Rails server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you're using Phusion Passenger or Puma in clustered mode), then your Rails server
```

served off one or two hosts. Server processes running on different hosts could
share a cache by using a shared file system, but that setup is not recommended.

As the cache will grow until the disk is full, it is recommended to periodically
clear out old entries.

[`ActiveSupport::Cache::FileStore`]:
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/FileStore.html

### `ActiveSupport::Cache::MemCacheStore`

> [`ActiveSupport::Cache::MemCacheStore`][] uses Danga's `memcached` server to

Reviewer: Danga no longer exists it seems: https://www.danga.com/
Maybe we can link to memcached.org?
```suggestion
[`ActiveSupport::Cache::MemCacheStore`][] uses [`memcached`][] to
```

provide a centralized cache for your application. Rails uses the bundled `dalli`
gem by default. It can provide a single shared cache cluster with high
performance and redundancy.

When initializing the cache, you should specify the addresses for all memcached
servers in your cluster, or ensure the `MEMCACHE_SERVERS` environment variable
has been set appropriately.

```ruby
config.cache_store = :mem_cache_store, "cache-1.example.com", "cache-2.example.com"
```

If neither are specified, it will assume memcached is running on localhost on
the default port (`127.0.0.1:11211`), but this is not an ideal setup for larger
sites.

```ruby
config.cache_store = :mem_cache_store # Will fallback to $MEMCACHE_SERVERS, then 127.0.0.1:11211
```

See the [`Dalli::Client`
documentation](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/dalli/Dalli/Client#initialize-instance_method)
for supported address types.

The [`write`][ActiveSupport::Cache::MemCacheStore#write] (and `fetch`) method on
this cache accepts additional options that take advantage of features specific
to memcached.

[`ActiveSupport::Cache::MemCacheStore`]:

>     https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/MemCacheStore.html

Reviewer: [`memcached`]: https://memcached.org/
```suggestion
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/MemCacheStore.html
[`memcached`]: https://memcached.org/
```

[ActiveSupport::Cache::MemCacheStore#write]:
    https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Cache/MemCacheStore.html#method-i-write

### `ActiveSupport::Cache::RedisCacheStore`

> [`ActiveSupport::Cache::RedisCacheStore`][] takes advantage of Redis support for

Reviewer: Maybe link to Redis as well?
```suggestion
[`ActiveSupport::Cache::RedisCacheStore`][] takes advantage of [Redis][] support for
```

automatic eviction when it reaches max memory, allowing it to behave much like a
Memcached cache server.

Deployment note: Redis does not expire keys by default, so take care to use a
dedicated Redis cache server. Don't fill up your persistent Redis server with
volatile cache data! Read the [Redis cache server setup

> guide](https://redis.io/topics/lru-cache) in detail.

Reviewer: Should this be a proper NOTE?
```suggestion
NOTE: Redis does not expire keys by default, so take care to use a
dedicated Redis cache server. Don't fill up your persistent Redis server with
volatile cache data! Read the [Redis cache server setup
guide](https://redis.io/topics/lru-cache) in detail.
```

For a cache-only Redis server, set `maxmemory-policy` to one of the variants of
allkeys. Redis 4+ supports least-frequently-used eviction (`allkeys-lfu`), an
excellent default choice. Redis 3 and earlier should use least-recently-used

> eviction (`allkeys-lru`).

Reviewer: Redis 3 and 4 are both End-of-Life for some years.
We can probably consider `allkeys-lfu` as a supported eviction strategy for all active Redis versions.
Not sure about "excellent" though... Maybe replace that with "great"?
```suggestion
For a cache-only Redis server, set `maxmemory-policy` to one of the variants of
allkeys. Least-frequently-used eviction (`allkeys-lfu`) is a
great default choice.
```

Author: Used "good" 😃
